README.md, before:

# Hazelcast C++ Client


C++ client implementation for [Hazelcast](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast), the open source in-memory data grid. A comparison of features supported by the C++ Client vs the Java client can be found [here](http://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/3.5/manual/html/javaclient.html).


---
*This is a new client being developed for the Hazelcast Open Client Protocol v1.0. This work is incomplete but is expected to be finalised around March 2016.*  

*We do not recommend you fork this client until it is complete and passes all tests.* 

*If you would like to assist with the development of this C++ client, please feel free to fork and send us pull requests. Please complete the [Hazelcast Contributor Agreement](https://hazelcast.atlassian.net/wiki/display/COM/Hazelcast+Contributor+Agreement) if you plan to do this. In the meantime we have published our C++ client which uses the older Hazelcast client protocol on our downloads page where it can be freely used.* 

---

## Documentation

API Documentation can be generated via doxygen from root with following command

```
doxygen docsConfig
```

## How to build

First create a build directory from the root of the project and in the directory run the following commands depending on your environment.

### For mac release

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release

### For mac code coverage

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DHZ_CODE_COVERAGE=ON
	gcovr -u -e .*external.* -e SimpleMapTest.h --html --html-details -o coverage.html 

### For mac Xcode development

  	cmake .. -G Xcode -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug

	cmake .. -G Xcode -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DCMAKE_ARCHIVE_OUTPUT_DIRECTORY=archive -DCMAKE_LIBRARY_OUTPUT_DIRECTORY=library
### For Linux Address Sanitizer

        cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DHZ_ADDRESS_SANITIZER=ON

### valgrind sample run with suppresions

        valgrind --leak-check=yes  --gen-suppressions=all --suppressions=../test.sup  ./hazelcast/test/clientTest_STATIC_64.exe  > log.t

### For linux release

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release

### For linux valgrind

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DHZ_VALGRIND=ON

### For windows release

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
	cmake .. -G "Visual Studio 10 Win64"  -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
	cmake .. -G "Visual Studio 10 Win64"  -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release

	MSBuild.exe HazelcastClient.sln /property:Configuration=Release

### For windows debug

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
	cmake .. -G "Visual Studio 10 Win64"  -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
	cmake .. -G "Visual Studio 10 Win64"  -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug

	MSBuild.exe HazelcastClient.sln /property:TreatWarningsAsErrors=true /property:Configuration=Debug

## Mail Group

Please join the mail group if you are interested in using or developing Hazelcast.

[http://groups.google.com/group/hazelcast](http://groups.google.com/group/hazelcast)

## License

Hazelcast C++ Client is available under the Apache 2 License. Please see the [Licensing appendix](http://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/latest/manual/html-single/hazelcast-documentation.html#license-questions) for more information.

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2008-2015, Hazelcast, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Visit [www.hazelcast.com](http://www.hazelcast.com/) for more info.

Commit message:

The tests are switched to the Googletest framework. This shall allow us more testing features in addition to the ability to be able to publish test results into Jenkins. Fixes the cross DLL boundary memory allocation/deallocation related problems (commented out the /MT flag in googletest/cmake/internal_utils.cmake and also removed the -Wno-missing-field-initializers in the same file since it does not work with gcc 3.4). The googletest is used as a submodule which uses the code at the forked googletest repository https://github.com/ihsandemir/googletest/tree/hazelcasttest . The pre-mentioned changes are committed in this repository. Also added the HZ_BUILD_TESTS and HZ_BUILD_EXAMPLES cmake flags for optionally enabling the builds for tests and examples.

README.md, after:

# Hazelcast C++ Client


C++ client implementation for [Hazelcast](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast), the open source in-memory data grid. A comparison of features supported by the C++ Client vs the Java client can be found [here](http://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/3.5/manual/html/javaclient.html).


---
*This is a new client being developed for the Hazelcast Open Client Protocol v1.0. This work is incomplete but is expected to be finalised around March 2016.*  

*We do not recommend you fork this client until it is complete and passes all tests.* 

*If you would like to assist with the development of this C++ client, please feel free to fork and send us pull requests. Please complete the [Hazelcast Contributor Agreement](https://hazelcast.atlassian.net/wiki/display/COM/Hazelcast+Contributor+Agreement) if you plan to do this. In the meantime we have published our C++ client which uses the older Hazelcast client protocol on our downloads page where it can be freely used.* 

---

## Documentation

API Documentation can be generated via doxygen from root with following command

```
doxygen docsConfig
```

## How to download

Clone the project from github:

git clone --recursive git@github.com:hazelcast/hazelcast-cpp-client.git

We use --recursive flag for our dependency on googletest framework.

## How to build

First create a build directory from the root of the project and in the directory run the following commands depending on your environment.

### For mac release

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release

### For mac code coverage

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DHZ_CODE_COVERAGE=ON
	gcovr -u -e .*external.* -e SimpleMapTest.h --html --html-details -o coverage.html 

### For mac Xcode development

  	cmake .. -G Xcode -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug

	cmake .. -G Xcode -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DCMAKE_ARCHIVE_OUTPUT_DIRECTORY=archive -DCMAKE_LIBRARY_OUTPUT_DIRECTORY=library

### valgrind sample run with suppresions

        valgrind --leak-check=yes  --gen-suppressions=all --suppressions=../test.sup  ./hazelcast/test/clientTest_STATIC_64.exe  > log.t

### For linux release

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release

### For building the tests

    Add the -DHZ_BUILD_TESTS=ON flag to the cmake flags. e.g.:
    cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DHZ_BUILD_TESTS=ON

### For building the examples

    Add the -DHZ_BUILD_EXAMPLES=ON flag to the cmake flags. e.g.:
    cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DHZ_BUILD_EXAMPLES=ON

### For linux valgrind

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DHZ_VALGRIND=ON

### For windows release

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
	cmake .. -G "Visual Studio 10 Win64"  -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
	cmake .. -G "Visual Studio 10 Win64"  -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release

	MSBuild.exe HazelcastClient.sln /property:Configuration=Release

### For windows debug

	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
	cmake .. -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
	cmake .. -G "Visual Studio 10 Win64"  -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=STATIC -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
	cmake .. -G "Visual Studio 10 Win64"  -DHZ_LIB_TYPE=SHARED -DHZ_BIT=64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug

	MSBuild.exe HazelcastClient.sln /property:TreatWarningsAsErrors=true /property:Configuration=Debug

## Mail Group

Please join the mail group if you are interested in using or developing Hazelcast.

[http://groups.google.com/group/hazelcast](http://groups.google.com/group/hazelcast)

## License

Hazelcast C++ Client is available under the Apache 2 License. Please see the [Licensing appendix](http://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/latest/manual/html-single/hazelcast-documentation.html#license-questions) for more information.

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2008-2015, Hazelcast, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Visit [www.hazelcast.com](http://www.hazelcast.com/) for more info.
